So next
we're going to continue some discussion of scalability and how IP addresses get allocated as well as some other special-purpose IP addresses that we haven't yet discussed
So has reportedly seen with prefixing
Also noticed this address aggregation
This is one mechanism through which will enable scalability
So
for example
if a provider has given these two addresses starting 2:01
10 corresponding to this range of addresses
0, through
7 than anything
And that's based on this 21 mask
So then
the provider could assign these in any way they like and the routers and the rest of the internet would only need to know how to reach this provider
They don't need to know any additional information about these individual customers
So aggregation definitely helps
It's not always possible though
It could be the case that there is what's called a multi Home customer
So one that's for various reasons might want to have multiple providers for backup
Reliability etcetera
So then the internet would need to know how to reach these particular destinations through both providers
And this this route to this network
Would need to have the 23 bed masks visible
instead of just a 24
So making the scalable is in part based on just the demand growth of devices
getting connected to the internet
What what does Charter showing is basically time and years versus how many active bgp in trees
There are
And we can I see a bit how this
how the size of the internet grew
So initially
there was a super linear growth
There wasn't any aggregation Cedar
which we've discussed was introduced and the aggregation that it allowed and able to linear growth
The internet
boom started a little bit before
Mm
So there was a super linear growth hear some chili
Looks like an exponential growth multihoming would drive the super linear growth
The.com bubble occurred and the growth sort of stopped for a couple years
but then it's continued and continued on with an exponential growth financial crisis around 2008 caused that to drop a little bit
but now it's continued to grow
So all this is really led to why were using things like IPv6 now
which we haven't talked too much detail about
but it's a bit more complicated than ipv4 that we focused on
But it's going to come back to an issue of
Do we even have enough IP addresses that
So we need to mention a couple of special-purpose address blocks that we have in particular
discussed yet
So their private addresses I'm in this is by standardization or green mint
These are not route to the public internet
So these are for networks
not meant for general
internet connectivity
So these to find your standard land
internal IP addresses
So thing with anything in this black
starting with ten
anything
starting with 172
16, and then anyting
starting with 192
Additionally
there's some address blocks that are called link-local
so I can buy agreement
These are not forwarded
Not only not to the Internet by buy any router
So these are used for single link communication
Am I so need to be directly connected and this is after doing things like auto-configuration
So if you've ever seen
if your device has failed to connect to the internet to connect to a network
if you get assigned automatically by your operating system
and I feel like this starting 169
That's one of the links local standard addresses
They're a couple other classes are special
Addresses one is loopback addresses
So this would correspond to the local machine
This would be the Black starting 127
0 usually only one of these was used which is 127
0.1
So you'll probably run across that IP address before and the reason it's not going to be forwarded is it's just going to refer back to this local machine directly
There also limited broadcast special-purpose addresses as well and needs to be sent to every host attached to the local network
And this is for enabling broadcast to all the notes in the network
the standard block for this would be 255, repeated
So to summarize
some of the scalability of hierarchical addressing has been critical for scalability
So we don't require every node to know every other node or every router to know how to get to every other note
It just needs to know how to get to every other network
So drastically
Reduces the amount of information required and it also makes it easier to propagate changes
When something does change such as a failure
the non-uniform hierarchy is also useful for having heterogeneous
Networks are different sizes that initial class space addressing was too course
which led to this development class lesson or two main routing or Cedar
That's enabled
Much more flexibility by providing arbitrary length prefixes